Hello friends
In this video let us discuss about optimisation problems
So what is an  optimisation problem ? A problem that requires
either the minimum or the maximum result is called optimisation
problem
For example let us take this problem
The problem is to reach from the source to destination
This problem might have many solutions like this
Let us add one condition to this problem that is
the person should reach the destination within 45 minutes
Then the will be lesser number of solutions
These solutions are called as feasible solutions
That is a solution that satisfies the condition given in
the problem is called as the feasible solution
So here three solution satisfies the given condition
The first route takes five minutes time and cost rupees
The second road takes 10 minutes to reach the destination
and cost rupees 50 and the third road takes 15
minutes to reach the destination and cost rupees
Five
Here
If we want to pick the route which takes the
minimum cost there will be only one solution which will
be road three as it takes
Just five rupees to cover the end
The entire journey hence road three is called the optimal solution
so the feasible solution that gives the minimum or maximum
result is known as the optimal solution
There can be more than one solution for a problem
and more than one feasible solution
But there must only be one optimal solution so simply
the problem can have many solutions
The solutions which solve the given condition is known as
a feasible solution and there can be more than one
feasible solution for a problem
A feasible solution which gives the minimum or maximum result
is known as the optimal solution and there should be
only one optimal solution for a problem
We can solve the optimisation problems using three methods
The first one is greedy method
The second one is dynamic programming and the third one
is branch and bound let us discuss one by one in
the upcoming lessons